hi this is a video being recorded in my
temporary apartment in Germany so the
decoration you see around you here is
not particularly my taste or not my
choosing but it's a nice apartment is
saying I'll be here for about two weeks
this is also may be the only video where
you can kind of see why some people
claim I have green eyes a very peculiar
eye color that never quite settles down
to brown anyway I'm talking about an
important issue that so far I haven't
seen any intellectual response to from
vegans or from other people involved
with ecology and environmentalism on the
contrary the response within Canada to
the trans-pacific partnership from the
Green Party and other typical voices for
environmentalism has been negative for
the following reason they presume that
the role of the left wing and politics
is to oppose any given free trade
agreement they assume that ecology is a
left-wing concern and they assume that
they're for the Green Party and other
ecologists should oppose the TPP now on
the other hand if you're vegan you may
have seen articles floating around that
are proclaiming or declaiming the fact
that the meat and dairy industries will
collapse because of the TPP tramps of
burnishing and if you're vegan you must
look at those articles with one eyebrow
raised because from a vegan perspective
that is a good thing this video is to
confirm very simply that while there are
some protections for the poultry
industry for the egg industry well there
are some protections for some industries
it is basically true that the TPP the
trans-pacific partnership will massively
destabilize the beef and dairy
industries will massively destabilize
the pork industry's and definitely for a
country like Canada it is not an
exaggeration to say this will be the end
of the meat industry as we know it how
it would affect a country like Colombia
is a very different story I would expect
that a country like Colombia Argentina
etc if they do enter the trans-pacific
partnership it's it's unknown there a
lot of question marks they may be
producing more beef exactly to export it
to countries like Canada
so look if you want to know what's going
off the TPP right now the text of the
agreement has only been available to the
public for a couple of months and to
understand it you need a pretty good
education and economic Social Sciences
political science if you can get it I
feel guilty saying that because I
learned nothing in my political science
to pull or despise getting that diploma
not because that's booma um but I
digress what you need to do is look
through a glossary of the jargon and the
acronym so the peculiar terms used in
the agreement but once you do that for
example I was scrolling through the list
of guaranteed tariff-free commodities
the what the TPP guarantees will be
freely traded without restrictions
without prices being controlled by
governments and beef is on there in
legal jargon meat of bovine animals
poultry is not poultry is that are much
more complicated provisions governing
poultry a cow meat pig meat primate meat
is protected so if you were the one guy
who owns a monkey farm in New York State
and you've been complaining for all
these years that it's really difficult
to sell monkey meat in Montreal to
export your monkey meat between Canada
the United States this free trade
agreement is for you it's going to
benefit your business and you know the
whole lung primate meat industry I mean
you know eight hamburgers all of those
forms of meat will now be freely traded
within this huge international zone
obviously that type of meat will
probably be traded primarily for
scientific experimentation perhaps more
seriously whale meat dolphin meat
porpoise meat etc is protected for free
trade also
so there are some interesting question
marks there but look the big news is and
I don't know who's going to write the
articles who's going to have the kind of
intellectual clout to deal with the
knock-on effects of this but I see two
big categories of impacts one directly
and immediately this agreement we're
talking about will lead to the collapse
of the government-controlled beef and
dairy industries definitely in Canada
that'll be the end of the world as we
know it in those industries and that's a
good thing from a vegan perspective it's
a good thing from an ecological
perspective it's a good thing even just
in terms of pure economic efficiency
it's a wonderful thing so yeah as far as
I can see there's no safety net here
those industries in Canada are going to
absolutely collapse and little bits and
pieces of the industry that actually are
efficient that actually produce a
product people want will survive or
possibly thrive but in the main are
pseudo socialist system of having
taxpayers subsidize the production of
meat and dairy and having the government
control the prices etc that is going to
have to end under the trans-pacific
partnership and that's wonderful news
for vegans and vegans are a tiny
percentage of population we only people
who care about ecology are pretty small
percentage of population so it's hard to
imagine another legal context where that
type of fundamental change and challenge
could come about so that's like for us
to celebrate and if you're a
conventional left-wing person who
opposes free trade agreements it might
be something for you to do some
philosophizing about the second aspect I
wanted to mention briefly is the
interaction between meat production and
nationalism if you google British beef
you're going to find that England is a
typical western country in that they
glorify meat production in terms of
nationalism and use nationalism to
justify
the provision of those protectionist
measures subsidies to meet AG meet
agriculture whatever going to call it
meat production cattle farming and so on
and of course the dairy industry and
what have you um in a more subtle and
profound and long-term way the
trans-pacific partnership is going to
destroy this pride the you know notions
Canadians have that somehow meat
production is part of our national
independence and that nationalism
justifies the taxpayers supporting meat
production so that's a more subtle and
long-term ripple effect that's not the
collapse of anything that's not a sort
of directly measurable economic change
but i do think within my lifetime if the
trans-pacific partnership goes ahead
you'll get a little bit of a sobering up
in people's attitudes where they stop
thinking of milk and beef as magical
especially important goods and instead
start to analyze what the government is
doing and what the consuming public is
doing and a little bit more of a
pragmatic and critical way living in the
world we're living in it would be a step
in the right direction if people could
just think about beef the same way they
think about tobacco hmm as something
that's somewhat harmful both the human
health and the environment we live in
and so on something that government
policy is involved in but nobody today
would support the idea of the taxpayers
money should go into supporting the
expansion of the tobacco industry or
into making cigarettes cheaper for
people everyone presumed to the role the
government is to make cigarettes more
expensive that is a huge difference at
the end of World War two American
taxpayers were not only paying to make
tobacco cheaper in the united states
that actually spent a huge amount of
money to provide American cigarettes to
Germans
true fact when the Americans won the war
they thought this was a great
opportunity to get the Germans hooked on
tobacco exported from united states hope
that the US taxpayer deeply in debt from
fighting sexual for paid the bill for
that yeah so it is what it is I myself
have not devoted a lot of time to
looking at the trans-pacific partnership
the analysis of what the agreement is
what it entails what its long-term
impacts will be is kind of in its
infancy right now this is December of
2015 but yeah leaping off the page
fundamentally an agreement to abolish
tariffs and other controls over the
export of beef pork etc that alone is
going to have a profound impact on both
what the meat industry really is and on
how people think about